# sql_casestudy_administrator
As an Administrator, I will be using this data to answer some questions related to Customers, Sales and profit in different states, money spent on Marketing, etc. 

Problem Statement:
As a database administrator. I want to use the data to answer a few
questions about your customers, especially about the sales and profit coming
from different states, money spent in marketing and various other factors such as
COGS (Cost of Goods Sold), budget profit etc. I plan on using these insights
to help find out which items are being sold the most. I have been provided
with the sample of the overall customer data due to privacy issues. But I hope
that these samples are enough for me to write fully functioning SQL queries to
help answer the questions.

Dataset:
The 3 key datasets for this case study:

a. FactTable: The Fact Table has 14 columns mentioned below and 4200
rows. Date, ProductID, Profit, Sales, Margin, COGS, Total Expenses,
Marketing, Inventory, Budget Profit, Budget COGS, Budget Margin, Budget
Sales, and Area Code
Note: COGS stands for Cost of Goods Sold

b. ProductTable: The ProductTable has four columns named Product Type,
Product, ProductID, and Type. It has 13 rows which can be broken down
into further details to retrieve the information mentioned in theFactTable.

c. LocationTable: Finaly, the LocationTable has 156 rows and follows a
similar approach to ProductTable. It has four columns named Area Code,
State, Market, and Market Size

Tasks to be performed:

1. Display the number of states present in theLocationTable.
2. Howmany products are of regular type?
3. Howmuch spending has been done on marketing of product ID1?
4. What is the minimum sales of a product?
5. Display the max Cost of Good Sold (COGS).
6. Display the details of the product where product type iscoffee.
7. Display the details where total expenses are greater than40.
8. What is the average sales in area code 719?
9. Find out the total profit generated by Colorado state.
10.Display the average inventory for each product ID.
11.Display state in a sequential order in a LocationTable.
12.Display the average budget of the Product where the average budget
margin should be greater than 100.
13.What is the total sales done on date 2010-01-01?
14.Display the average total expense of each product ID on anindividual date.
15.Display the table with the following attributes such as date, productID,
   product_type, product, sales, profit, state, area_code.
16.Display the rank without any gap to show the sales wiserank.
17.Find the state wise profit and sales.
18.Find the state wise profit and sales along with the productname.
19.If there is an increase in sales of 5%, calculate the increasedsales.
20.Find the maximum profit along with the product ID and producttype.
21.Create a stored procedure to fetch the result according to theproduct type
from ProductTable.
22.Write a query by creating a condition in which if the total expenses isless than
60 then it is a profit or else loss.
23.Give the total weekly sales value with the date and product IDdetails. Use
roll-up to pull the data in hierarchical order.
24.Apply union and intersection operator on the tables which consistof
attribute area code.
25.Create a user-defined function for the product table to fetch aparticular
product type based upon the user’s preference.
26.Change the product type from coffee to tea where product ID is 1and undo
it.
27.Display the date, product ID and sales where total expensesare
between 100 to 200.
28.Delete the records in the Product Table for regulartype.
29.Display the ASCII value of the fifth character from the columnProduct.
